README.md, before:

# adapt-contrib-graphic  

**Graphic** is a *presentation component* bundled with the [Adapt framework](https://github.com/adaptlearning/adapt_framework).  

<img src="https://github.com/adaptlearning/documentation/blob/master/04_wiki_assets/plug-ins/images/graphic01.png" alt="sample graphic component" align="center">

**Graphic** displays graphic content that has been optimized for various devices. The component swaps out images based upon the device's screen size. 

[Visit the **Graphic** wiki](https://github.com/adaptlearning/adapt-contrib-graphic/wiki) for more information about its functionality and for explanations of key properties. 

## Installation

As one of Adapt's *[core components](https://github.com/adaptlearning/adapt_framework/wiki/Core-Plug-ins-in-the-Adapt-Learning-Framework#components),* **Graphic** is included with the [installation of the Adapt framework](https://github.com/adaptlearning/adapt_framework/wiki/Manual-installation-of-the-Adapt-framework#installation) and the [installation of the Adapt authoring tool](https://github.com/adaptlearning/adapt_authoring/wiki/Installing-Adapt-Origin).

* If **Graphic** has been uninstalled from the Adapt framework, it may be reinstalled.
With the [Adapt CLI](https://github.com/adaptlearning/adapt-cli) installed, run the following from the command line:  
`adapt install adapt-contrib-graphic`

    Alternatively, this component can also be installed by adding the following line of code to the *adapt.json* file:  
    `"adapt-contrib-graphic": "*"`  
    Then running the command:  
    `adapt install`  
    (This second method will reinstall all plug-ins listed in *adapt.json*.)  

* If **Graphic** has been uninstalled from the Adapt authoring tool, it may be reinstalled using the [Plug-in Manager](https://github.com/adaptlearning/adapt_authoring/wiki/Plugin-Manager).

## Settings Overview

The attributes listed below are used in *components.json* to configure **Graphic**, and are properly formatted as JSON in [*example.json*](https://github.com/adaptlearning/adapt-contrib-graphic/blob/master/example.json). Visit the [**Graphic** wiki](https://github.com/adaptlearning/adapt-contrib-graphic/wiki) for more information about how they appear in the [authoring tool](https://github.com/adaptlearning/adapt_authoring/wiki). 

### Attributes

[**core model attributes**](https://github.com/adaptlearning/adapt_framework/wiki/Core-model-attributes): These are inherited by every Adapt component. [Read more](https://github.com/adaptlearning/adapt_framework/wiki/Core-model-attributes).

**\_component** (string): This value must be: `graphic`.

**\_classes** (string): CSS class name to be applied to **Graphic**’s containing `div`. The class must be predefined in one of the Less files. Separate multiple classes with a space.

**\_layout** (string): This defines the horizontal position of the component in the block. Acceptable values are `full`, `left` or `right`.  

**instruction** (string): This optional text appears above the component. It is frequently used to
guide the learner’s interaction with the component.  

**\_graphic** (object): The image that constitutes the component. It contains values for **alt**, **large**, and **small**.

>**alt** (string): This text becomes the image’s `alt` attribute. 

>**large** (string): File name (including path) of the image used with large device width. Path should be relative to the *src* folder (e.g., *course/en/images/origami-menu-two.jpg*).  

>**small** (string): File name (including path) of the image used with small device width. Path should be relative to the *src* folder (e.g., *course/en/images/origami-menu-two.jpg*).  

>**attribution** (string): Optional text to be displayed as an [attribution](https://wiki.creativecommons.org/Best_practices_for_attribution). By default it is displayed below the image. Adjust positioning by modifying CSS. Text can contain HTML tags, e.g., `Copyright © 2015 by <b>Lukasz 'Severiaan' Grela</b>`  

## Accessibility
+ Remember to include an **alt** attribute for all your images. Screen readers will read aloud alt text content, so leave the alt text empty (`"alt": ""`) if the image does not contribute significant course content.  
+ If the alt text is left empty, the image will *not* be included in the tab order. If the component is configured to display [title or body text]((https://github.com/adaptlearning/adapt_framework/wiki/Core-model-attributes)), these will remain keyboard accessible.  
+ If the alt text is assigned a value, but the component is not being tracked for course completion, assign the class `"no-state"` to **\_classes**. Adapt's accessibility mode reports to the learner the 'state' of the component, whether it is complete or incomplete. It is not common practice to require interaction with (or 'completion' of) an image for course completion. Indeed, a screen reader needlessly announcing the state of an image may be distracting for the learner. Assigning the built-in class `"no-state"` prevents this.  

## Limitations

No known limitations.

----------------------------
**Version number:**  4.1.0   <a href="https://community.adaptlearning.org/" target="_blank"><img src="https://github.com/adaptlearning/documentation/blob/master/04_wiki_assets/plug-ins/images/adapt-logo-mrgn-lft.jpg" alt="adapt learning logo" align="right"></a>  
**Framework versions:** 5.5+  
**Author / maintainer:** Adapt Core Team with [contributors](https://github.com/adaptlearning/adapt-contrib-graphic/graphs/contributors)  
**Accessibility support:** WAI AA  
**RTL support:** Yes  
**Cross-platform coverage:** Chrome, Chrome for Android, Firefox (ESR + latest version), Edge, IE11, Safari 12+13 for macOS/iOS/iPadOS, Opera

Commit message:

update alt text description (#78)
* update alt text description

- provide alt text guidence
- remove the 'no-state' instructions as this is no longer relevant in v5

* Update README.md

grammar correction

Co-authored-by: tomgreenfield <tomgreenfield@users.noreply.github.com>

* move alt text guidance out into wiki

- reduce readme text
- avoid repetition across plugins

* Update properties.schema

Co-authored-by: Matt Leathes <mleathes+github@gmail.com>

* text amend

Co-authored-by: Matt Leathes <mleathes+github@gmail.com>

Co-authored-by: tomgreenfield <tomgreenfield@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Matt Leathes <mleathes+github@gmail.com>

README.md, after:

# adapt-contrib-graphic  

**Graphic** is a *presentation component* bundled with the [Adapt framework](https://github.com/adaptlearning/adapt_framework).  

<img src="https://github.com/adaptlearning/documentation/blob/master/04_wiki_assets/plug-ins/images/graphic01.png" alt="sample graphic component" align="center">

**Graphic** displays graphic content that has been optimized for various devices. The component swaps out images based upon the device's screen size. 

[Visit the **Graphic** wiki](https://github.com/adaptlearning/adapt-contrib-graphic/wiki) for more information about its functionality and for explanations of key properties. 

## Installation

As one of Adapt's *[core components](https://github.com/adaptlearning/adapt_framework/wiki/Core-Plug-ins-in-the-Adapt-Learning-Framework#components),* **Graphic** is included with the [installation of the Adapt framework](https://github.com/adaptlearning/adapt_framework/wiki/Manual-installation-of-the-Adapt-framework#installation) and the [installation of the Adapt authoring tool](https://github.com/adaptlearning/adapt_authoring/wiki/Installing-Adapt-Origin).

* If **Graphic** has been uninstalled from the Adapt framework, it may be reinstalled.
With the [Adapt CLI](https://github.com/adaptlearning/adapt-cli) installed, run the following from the command line:  
`adapt install adapt-contrib-graphic`

    Alternatively, this component can also be installed by adding the following line of code to the *adapt.json* file:  
    `"adapt-contrib-graphic": "*"`  
    Then running the command:  
    `adapt install`  
    (This second method will reinstall all plug-ins listed in *adapt.json*.)  

* If **Graphic** has been uninstalled from the Adapt authoring tool, it may be reinstalled using the [Plug-in Manager](https://github.com/adaptlearning/adapt_authoring/wiki/Plugin-Manager).

## Settings Overview

The attributes listed below are used in *components.json* to configure **Graphic**, and are properly formatted as JSON in [*example.json*](https://github.com/adaptlearning/adapt-contrib-graphic/blob/master/example.json). Visit the [**Graphic** wiki](https://github.com/adaptlearning/adapt-contrib-graphic/wiki) for more information about how they appear in the [authoring tool](https://github.com/adaptlearning/adapt_authoring/wiki). 

### Attributes

[**core model attributes**](https://github.com/adaptlearning/adapt_framework/wiki/Core-model-attributes): These are inherited by every Adapt component. [Read more](https://github.com/adaptlearning/adapt_framework/wiki/Core-model-attributes).

**\_component** (string): This value must be: `graphic`.

**\_classes** (string): CSS class name to be applied to **Graphic**’s containing `div`. The class must be predefined in one of the Less files. Separate multiple classes with a space.

**\_layout** (string): This defines the horizontal position of the component in the block. Acceptable values are `full`, `left` or `right`.  

**instruction** (string): This optional text appears above the component. It is frequently used to
guide the learner’s interaction with the component.  

**\_graphic** (object): The image that constitutes the component. It contains values for **alt**, **large**, and **small**.

>**alt** (string): The alternative text for this image. Assign [alt text](https://github.com/adaptlearning/adapt_framework/wiki/Providing-good-alt-text) to images that convey course content only.

>**large** (string): File name (including path) of the image used with large device width. Path should be relative to the *src* folder (e.g., *course/en/images/origami-menu-two.jpg*).  

>**small** (string): File name (including path) of the image used with small device width. Path should be relative to the *src* folder (e.g., *course/en/images/origami-menu-two.jpg*).  

>**attribution** (string): Optional text to be displayed as an [attribution](https://wiki.creativecommons.org/Best_practices_for_attribution). By default it is displayed below the image. Adjust positioning by modifying CSS. Text can contain HTML tags, e.g., `Copyright © 2015 by <b>Lukasz 'Severiaan' Grela</b>`  

## Accessibility  
+ If the 'alternative text' is left empty, the image will *not* be included in the tab order. If the component is configured to display [title or body text]((https://github.com/adaptlearning/adapt_framework/wiki/Core-model-attributes)), these will remain keyboard accessible.

## Limitations

No known limitations.

----------------------------
**Version number:**  4.1.0   <a href="https://community.adaptlearning.org/" target="_blank"><img src="https://github.com/adaptlearning/documentation/blob/master/04_wiki_assets/plug-ins/images/adapt-logo-mrgn-lft.jpg" alt="adapt learning logo" align="right"></a>  
**Framework versions:** 5.5+  
**Author / maintainer:** Adapt Core Team with [contributors](https://github.com/adaptlearning/adapt-contrib-graphic/graphs/contributors)  
**Accessibility support:** WAI AA  
**RTL support:** Yes  
**Cross-platform coverage:** Chrome, Chrome for Android, Firefox (ESR + latest version), Edge, IE11, Safari 12+13 for macOS/iOS/iPadOS, Opera
